Appearance and Features:The Baratie is a fairly large ship. It takes an oval shape, with the normal masts but has a fish as a front-piece/head.[1] The Baratie has a round bottom. A small array of cannons are lined on the sides, which can be used for battle. The Baratie also has four levels:
Lower deck, which is where the main restaurant is.
Middle Deck, which is the main kitchen.
Upper Deck, where twenty three cooks reside.
The fins that fold out to the sides from underneath are to stabilize the restaurant during harsh weather and also are used as a battle platform to prevent the restaurant itself from receiving collateral damage.[3]The Baratie has several characteristics that caught the interest of Don Krieg. The bottom of the ship was rounded, and could be extended into "fins" or a battle deck. Also, the fish head of the ship can be detached to make the mobile attack unit Sabagashira I. Similar to a pedal boat, it is covered and made out of metal. Cannons are stationed inside of the fish's mouth.[3]
The ship had a few secondary boats. One of them was a supply boat, which was handed off to Gin and the remnants of the Krieg Pirates after their defeat. Another boat, the Shimashima Shopping, was given to Sanji, so he, Monkey D. Luffy and Yosaku could sail to Cocoyasi Village.
After two years, the Baratie has expanded after undergoing major renovations, with several floors added and at least two other sister ships.
Chefs
The Baratie is owned and headed by Zeff, who founded it 12 years ago with the help of a 9-year-old Sanji. After its founding, Zeff assumed the position of head chef, with Sanji becoming the young sous chef
The Baratie staff is noted for being a staff of outcasts, exiles and pirate types.[4] Its owner is a renowned former pirate captain, and Sanji himself came to help co-found the restaurant after being exiled from his family. Most of the chefs (including Patty and Carne) also joined up after being chased out of other restaurants and responding to Zeff's adverts for "damn cooks".[5] When the restaurant came under attack by the Krieg Pirates, the cooking staff decided to defend it because it was the one place that had accepted them.[6] The staff mostly fights with oversized cutlery such as forks and knives unlike Zeff and Sanji.
The chefs on board the Baratie are well-known for fighting in the restaurant, usually against pirates who come to try to steal food. However, Zeff and Sanji were particularly known for attacking ungrateful or rowdy customers, much to Patty's despair, and would do so in full view of the other customers.
After Sanji received his first bounty from the World Government, the other chefs responded by handing out copies to customers and displaying it inside the restaurant. Rather than being worried about connecting themselves to a famous pirate crew, the Baratie chefs are proud about it and use it to market themselves to their customers.[7]
Customers
Red-Eyed Man
He was a famous customer at the Baratie. His real name is unknown. Johnny, having heard of him and mistaking him for "Hawk-Eye", told Zoro that Dracule Mihawk might be found at the Baratie.
He frequently visited the Baratie, but one day, he got drunk on wine and died after setting himself on fire. The flames were said to be quite beautiful.
He was only mentioned in the manga upon the recollections of the chefs in Chapter 49.[8] In the anime, he was not mentioned at all.
Fullbody
The Baratie was also frequented by the Marine Lieutenant Fullbody. On one occasion, he brought a date, Moodie, whom he tried to impress with his knowledge of fine wine. After Sanji called him out for being wrong, Fullbody attacked Sanji, only for the sous chef to beat him bloody in response.
History
Past
Ten years before Luffy arrived at the Baratie, hoping to find a cook for his young crew, Zeff founded the Baratie with Sanji's help and support. After the Cook Pirates attacked the Orbit, both Zeff and a 9-year-old Sanji were stranded on a rock for 85 days. During this time, Zeff discussed with Sanji the idea of starting a restaurant floating on the sea, and Sanji promised that if they survived, he would help Zeff achieve that goal.[9] After they were rescued on the 85th day, Zeff sold all the treasure he had and purchased the Baratie. As the restaurant's new head chef, he told Sanji (the new sous chef) that all customers would be welcome, no matter how villainous they were.[10]
East Blue Saga
Baratie Arc
During Luffy's brief stint working at the Baratie, the restaurant was attacked by the Krieg Pirates after Sanji gave Gin some food.[11] Gin responded by taking the armada to the Baratie, as the armada was starving to death. After Zeff gave Krieg some food, which the cooks of Baratie would not do, Krieg attempted to capture the Baratie, saying that it would be the perfect disguise to attack towns and other ships. The cooks began to prepare to fight against the Wolves of the Sea, the nickname given to the armada, and Krieg's weapon arsenal. Later, after a long and arduous battle between Krieg and Luffy, Baratie was successfully defended.
Fish-Man Island Saga
From the Decks of the World
Two years later, Baratie undergoes some major remodeling,[12] with a new submarine dessert ship called "Sister Anko"[13] and a hot plate expansion ship called "Nasugasira".[14]
Whole Cake Island Saga
The Gally Pirates visited the restaurant, annoying Patty and Carne with their rowdiness. Despite the two chefs wanting to throw them out, Zeff refused, stating that he would feed anyone who was hungry and cooking for them himself.[15]
Major Battles
Baratie staff vs. Krieg Pirates
Roronoa Zoro vs. Dracule Mihawk
Sanji vs. Pearl
Sanji vs. Gin
Monkey D. Luffy vs. Don Krieg
Adaptation Differences
Anime Differences
The anime, during Sanji's departure,[16] briefly depicts the restaurant's official employee guidelines 
"Customer treatment is love—ergo, the restaurant is love!"
"Service, service, still more service!"
"The foundations of service are how we greet!"
"The customer is God!"
(All four directly reproduce Patty's introductory lines, implying that they are not merely a personal eccentricity.)
Live-Action Differences
In the live-action series, the Baratie faces much less damage than in the manga, due to Luffy not destroying the dining floor and Dracule Mihawk destroying the Krieg Pirates in its entirety, leaving them unable to siege the restaurant. Instead, Arlong, Kuroobi, and Chew attack the restaurant, only damaging the dining floor.
In the live-action series, while Luffy is still made the chore boy, it is because he was unable to pay for the expensive amount of food he ordered. Because Luffy loses to Arlong and subsequently leaves in search of Nami, Luffy never properly resigns from the Baratie or has his debt cleared. When Luffy receives his first bounty, Zeff places his wanted poster on his "Employee of the Month" board.
In the live-action series, women were seen as part of the staff of the Baratie, compare to the original series where women weren't allowed to work or train due to Zeff's strict policies.